11 Thursday afternoon, gray and cloudy outside and sitting in the living room with Jim Earl.
And when we finished the first tape, we were talking about Cadet Slouch.
And you said that you began Cadet Slouch when you were an undergraduate.
Fall 1953 when I was a fourth year senior.
And you said you modeled him after yourself.
What led you to think about doing in the first place?
You had played with that idea in high school?
I had done drawings, and I did them in high school, but not cartoons where you had a caption or told a story.
Just did pictures.
and just decided I would try it and went over and they were receptive and I did it.
Did you have any kind of inside track with the editor of the bat at that time?
Didn't know anybody over there.
And when you drew Cadet Slouch, what he looked like, did the Cadet Slouch that I would know ten years later look like the first?
So when Cadet Slouch started, his hair was a little longer than it would be later?
Yeah.
And he started out as a member of the Corps.
Oh yeah, that was mostly what A&M was then.
And he always remained as a Corps member.
Down through the years, where did you get your ideas and leads for the next cartoon?
You know, that was hard.
That's what cartooning is all about, is the next cartoon you're going to do.
And I didn't have enough time to plan here to think it, but usually I could just sit down and say, I've got to come up with an idea, and I've got to do this cartoon, and I don't have much time, and just somehow get something out.
And I feel like some of them are so doggone corny.
You're under such pressure.
Just get them out and get it over with, because the deadline is just every day hitting you like that.
Sometimes if you can see an event on the campus, like one time they were pouring concrete at a Sully statue and they started as a statue and they had this sort of hub of a spokes of a wheel and then they laid the sidewalks in and the sidewalks came up and missed each other like that and they're supposed to join like that and they missed it about half the width of the sidewalk and there it is, man, just a cartoon.
You say, here we are.
These guys come this end and that end, and the sidewalks didn't join, and you can make a drawing of that.
And when I walked past one time, somehow the contractor figured out who I was.
I had a chance to gouge him a little bit and tease him about it.
He enjoyed it, and that was the fun part of doing cartoons.
I didn't try to do anything that was just scathing, take the hat off somebody, but just
Show what happens, and somebody walks past and says, there's that damn thing there, and it just all sort of ties together.
That's the best cartoon for a small, regional audience like this.
Did you have a notepad or anything when you'd see something or think of something?
All right, you just followed away upstairs.
You normally tried to have how many in advance done?
In advance?
What is this advance?
You do them.
I did at one time rather have two or three in advance, but most of the time I just barely make the deadlines.
And how many a week normally?
Back then I think it was four a week, and then shortly thereafter we went to five a week.
Except it didn't have them on Saturday or Sunday.
So you started in 1953.
Yeah, I went through about 19.
85, I think it was.
Alright.
Now, are you away at all during that time?
No, I was here all during that time.
Well, let's see.
I was in the Air Force two years and mailed cartoons back.
Oh, you mailed cartoons back?
Yeah.
During those two years?
Oh, how splendid.
Did you ever have anybody in any kind of authority, either student or otherwise, to complain?
Never, nobody.
Did some examples, you mentioned the contractor, examples of where people took note pleasantly, positively?
Did any person in authority ever commend you for it?
Only from the standpoint of sort of wanting to be included, unfortunately.
Examples?
Can you give any examples?
Well, I had an English teacher named Shepard, you might remember him, J.N.
Shepard, and he wasn't being there, and that was sort of a highlight to him to be featured in a cartoon.
Did you include Mr. Rudder in a cartoon ever?
It seemed like I might have, but it...
Some of those things I did were sort of honorary things where you feature somebody and have a little bit of a write-up about them that was sort of an official cartoon.
And I did a lot of those retirement things, too, where people retire and I would do a cartoon for them that sort of featured their retirement, maybe, you know, so long, good luck, and listed something about their background.
But those weren't published as such.
But I don't know if I did much on, maybe I didn't on Rudder except that type of cartoon.
When I was a student, you know, I was a little bit more of a kid type and did more of an individual sort of stuff than I did later on.
As you look back on it, are there some of which you were most proud?
Sure, a lot of them I liked better than others, but if you're going to ask me which ones there were, I couldn't come up with them now.
Alright, and there was no one then that were you sitting there?
It was just like sausage, it just kept coming out.
Alright, why did you cease?
I'm not sure there was a reason.
I just sort of got to where I did them with a little bit less regularity.
And I was so stretched out doing all these doggone textbooks and stuff.
And I guess I just sort of got tired and sort of quit it.
And no one ever said, hey, where's the cartoons?
I said, no one gives a damn.
Why should I?
And so you worked with all kinds of battalion editors and
and so forth.
Did any editor ever try to edit one?
Reword?
I don't think so, no.
And you never were called on the carpet for bad language, bad... Never used any, no.
So you never were in any kind of hot water with them?
Tried to.
Have a little bit of a message where
if you do this, this is what happens sort of thing, where it's sort of easy, some yo-yo trying to figure out some shortcut to making a grade.
You can understand the simplest way to do it is the only way to do it, and that's the young study of it, as opposed to having all these systems worked out.
All right, if someone were to say, what was the philosophy behind Cadet Slouch, how would you?
Just pretty much to mirror what's happening on the campus.
Not just among the Corps members, although Slouch wore a uniform,
What was happening on the campus that mostly was portrayed there is what happened among the whole student body.
And you were not trying to parody it.
You were trying to reflect accurately.
Yes, show what's happening on the campus and have some fun with it.
Alright, did Cadet Slouch take note of co-eds when they enrolled?
Oh yeah, sure.
Did you have racial diversity?
Never got to that point.
But we didn't have very many minorities, I guess, at that time, been on any of it anyway.
He didn't have any, he didn't use any bad language in the lingo.
And he was always, Slouch was always a Corps member.
Once in a while do something like a t-shirt with an advertisement like Precration Nation or something like that.
Or once in a while you have a
have some sort of a cartoon talking about Thespians.
That's profaned up most people on campus.
So once you're back, did you do them in the summer also?
Yeah, they had about one or two issues during the summer only.
So by and large it was done.
How many different book volumes of Cadet Slouch cartoons have been published?
Published four.
Are any of them still in print?
No.
There ought to be one grand one.
Oh, I would like to do one.
I've been thinking about going over there, but everybody is, you know, from the moon, and that's what I call it, the Yankee type people that come way out there, and they wouldn't have any appreciation of what I'm talking about.
If I went to A&M Press right now, they'd say, well, we'll be in touch with you.
Don't call us.
We'll call you sort of thing, I bet you.
All right, let's go back then to your as a student day.
You graduated in what year?
55.
Describe commencement in 1955.
1955.
Commencement, we had commissioning exercises.
I guess we had commissioning exercises, final review, and that night we had graduation for people.
Where were all those held?
At G. Riley White, when both ceremonies took place in that building, and of course on the front of the MSC is where the drill field was, that's where Final Reviews held.
So you get commissioned in the afternoon about 1 o'clock, Final Reviews about 3 o'clock, and at night you have your graduation exercises.
So it was just like that.
And strange as it may be, showing you the beauty of the military, we were all in the Air Force.
I don't know if I told you this not earlier, but anyway, for the tape-offs to tell, again, we were all in the Air Force at the end of our junior year, our third year, and we'd signed commissions, contracts for commissions, and that was all agreed with the wonderful country of the United States of America.
And we went to the summer camp, and I know they sent an article from a local paper in Jacksonville that no one would get the commissions in the Air Force unless they flew.
So your contracts were all known void unless you flew.
And I posted on the bullet board out in Roslyn, Mexico, in summer camp that summer.
People noticed them for long enough.
People got interested in it.
They got a bunch of officers around there and said, tell us about it.
And they got us all in a great big area somewhere and got up.
Yeah, well, yeah, that's right and so forth.
So the SOBs never would tell me I was going to get a commission.
Because I said, hell, I don't want to fly because that's four years.
I want to be a civilian.
I'll give you two.
But there's no point in me flying and taking up your money in the spot.
They said, well, you won't get a commission.
Well, OK, fine.
I didn't know until about two days before commissioning that I'd get a commission.
They never would come out and tell me something.
One of my buddies would say, hey, your name's on this.
What this?
I was ready to go in there as an airman.
So I finally had my name listed.
And since then, I really haven't had it due to the military.
I had a signed contract and all that.
But two days before commissioning, I got my commission.
So that day, that all took place, finally commissioning, and that wrapped up AM for me.
I thought I was going to go home.
He threw with AM, had two flat tires on my way home.
Never had that one before.
Who came, for you, who was in the audience at those events?
My brother finished high school.
My dad stayed with him.
My mother came down for me to graduate.
Anybody else?
Now, let's see, were you the first in the family to go to college?
And at that point, what were you thinking you were going to do professionally?
Well, I wanted to be a cartoonist, but I said I would probably end up being an architect.
You were thinking of a comparatively traditional architect?
Yeah.
The commencement, describe commencement.
How many and so forth?
Well, I'd be hard-pressed to come up with a number just guessing.
I think it'd be 1,200, 1,500 maybe.
And we'd all walk across stage one at a time and shook hands with the president.
G. Raleigh was filled.
G. Raleigh, yeah.
Do you remember who the speaker was?
Of course not.
You don't remember either commissioning or?
No.
Were there any dignitaries, world-famous people that came to A&M while you were a student?
I think that Eisenhower for sure came.
I don't know if Bradley did or not, but Eisenhower did come.
I'm sure a lot of them came that I didn't know about.
Did he come by train?
I don't know how he got here.
Because there wasn't any airline service, scheduled airline service, was there?
Was Easterwood even?
I think that's about time he was making his run for the president.
Did Easterwood exist even when you were a student?
Or was there old Coulter Field?
There was Coulter Field.
I think Easterwood did exist.
But I think it operated about like Coulter Field.
And the university might have some plans.
I think it had no commercial plans.
It did.
I didn't know about them.
I would never dream of flying anywhere.
What were the feelings of you and your mother?
Did y'all have any special conversation on the way home from commencement?
I was just so grateful to have that behind me.
Going A&M for me was a hard job.
It wasn't fun and games at all.
It was a hard job.
There was a lot that you can enjoy even if you're in a prison camp like Stalag 17.
But it was a hard job, and all of us pretty much finished on time, and we did so much more than the average student today does that it would work.
And we went home and came back over a weekend or some vacation break or something.
Man, that last 40 miles coming to College Station was a grim experience.
We didn't look forward to coming back and getting into that way of life that we were in.
I don't think I asked you this earlier.
If we could
get all the teachers that you had here today, which ones would you want to give special appreciation to?
I told you I'm appreciative of all the people who I've rubbed shoulders with throughout my career and as you know and as with your experiences, most people you run into at the university level are good people, decent people.
Some are more talented than others, but as far as someone who turned the key in the lock that I was floating at sea and had no idea where I was, and this person came up and put me back on track and guided me somewhere, there was never a situation like that.
I was never in that kind of situation or did that I need someone to do that.
So I don't have any inspirational story to tell you in that regard, but I am appreciative of every little thing that teachers did.
Did A&M change you much?
in your attitudes, ideas, philosophy?
I think I was ready and made for A&M.
I had sort of the mentality of A&M sort of when I came down here, because you have to.
Who in the world won't come down here and get in this tough environment?
And it was a tough environment.
It was tough in every regard you can think of.
And you have to be sort of a combative type of personality to fit in best.
But yeah, I think it molded me, made me probably more that way.
All right, so you go on active duty.
Soon after graduation?
No, I had the summer off.
I didn't go until September.
All right.
And where did you serve?
I went to Abilene, Texas, a new base under construction.
No pay roads going to it, about 7,500 people there.
And that thing, by the time I left, it blossomed out and become a full-fledged strategic bomber base.
Were you there two years?
Two years.
And what duties did you have?
Well, I started off...
as an installation officer with the installation squadron, and I held every undesirable position that that squadron had as a lieutenant.
I was in charge of morale, getting security clearances for 300 guys and safety officers, blah, blah, blah, blah.
I was signed out for a while.
Every building on the whole base was in my name.
And I'd been in the service, you know, 15 minutes, and hearing all that stuff dumps on you.
I ended up coming to General Zade and said, see you fellas.
And I left those guys in the installations and went up to the General, not Westmoreland, but Westover.
And that was real nice.
He was a nice fellow, and I enjoyed working with him.
Did you spend two years there?
Two years.
Alright, and did you come back to A&M after that?
Yeah.
Alright, how did you and A&M get hooked up then?
Do you ever know Conrad Webb?
No.
He and another guy used to do these halftime flips and clown suits at basketball games.
Mm-hmm.
Remember that?
One of the guys worked at the department for a cross-eyed guy that was real good at tumbling.
Webb was a, I knew him, we were athletes together.
And I ran into him, I came down to him to do something, and I ran into him.
He said, what you doing?
He said, I'm teaching this stuff over here.
And I said, what is that?
And the architects didn't go through this program here.
The engineers go through that.
He explained that to me, and I said, and you're teaching.
Tell me about it.
He said, well, you ought to apply.
They always need somebody, and I won't be leaving and so forth and so on.
I said, gee, give me the address, and I'll send a letter down.
And sure enough, I got a reply back.
Got an offer for something like $3,900 for nine months.
And finally, they sent me another letter back and said, we're going to give you a raise, and we're going to give you $4,000.
I still have the letter out here.
$4,000 appointment.
to go to AM for nine months.
And this is 1957?
Seven, yeah.
Seven.
And what was your professorial title?
Of course.
The same one everyone started with, instructor.
You were an instructor of engineering graphics?
Yeah.
Describe the department at that time, didn't you?
That we had classes that were, do you remember out there with the old
where the TV studio is now, they had some 10 buildings, 10 root buildings called Anchor Hall.
Had about three of those buildings jammed together, and we had classes also in the Coliseum around the perimeter, G. Raleigh White Coliseum.
We had about four rooms there.
So we were in that so-called temporary facility like so many.
over there had a bunch of buildings of that same caliber on at the North Gate level and they taught all kinds of courses over there as well, temporarily.
So that was the program and I guess we had about 15, 16 faculty members and I guess we had maybe somewhere close to eight or nine hundred students per semester.
Did every engineering student go through?
Right, it was a service program at all.
who was the chairman of the department?
W.E.
Street.
S-T-R-E-E-T?
Yeah.
Describe him.
He was of the old school.
He was a very gentlemanly type fella that was formal in all respects and he was very active in church and just straight as an era, so straight he could hardly catch a joke.
He just was one of those kind of guys
That was a stoic, directed individual that was humorless, I guess, but he was a decent guy.
And there were a lot of fellows like Ed Aiden at the time.
I could just make a half dozen that sort of fit that mode, where they were just real professional, staunch, non-wavering type individuals that never could dance on both sides of the fence or have a good time or let themselves go any
But he was a real decent guy, and he hired me, and I always had frustration with him and a lot of respect for him, and appreciated him greatly.
As far as you know, did anybody intervene in your behalf or speak in your behalf to help you get that first job?
Oh, hell no.
It's just like throwing a dart at the board.
I never planned to be an academic.
If I had, I'd have been a little bit differently prepared.
Did you have any kind of orientation or advice on how to be a faculty member from anyone?
Yeah, I was required to audit somebody's class before I taught mine.
And that was a good policy and a good rule.
And when it was my time to advise people what to do or direct them what to do, that's what we did.
We said, you go with this senior guy and watch how he does it and you try to do it at least that good.
If you can do it better, that's even nicer.
Who were the senior colleagues that you most admired?
In that particular program?
Any of them?
Particularly in that program?
Particularly in that program.
Well, we had a number of them.
A sort of contemporary of mine was old North Bardell, who later became city manager over at College Station, and he was there.
Another nice guy I knew of, Gene McGarrah.
He was a Naval Academy.
and he ended up at TI and still lives in Dallas, I think.
And they were contemporaries.
And I admire Street.
Samuel Cleland was the one that I thought a great deal of.
And John Oliver.
And Ed, not Wayne, but Ed Stark, Lawrence E. Stark.
He is a father-in-law of Jim Sheeter, worked for his association.
When you first began, who was dean of engineering?
I think Calhoun was for a few minutes, and then he got named vice president, something like that.
We didn't have chancellor, that kind of thing, but I think he became vice president for the university, and Benson became dean, and he remained dean through about, oh, I guess maybe 1980 or something like that.
Make believe that I didn't know
Fred Benson.
Tell me about him.
Fred Benson was the most unique individual I think I've ever known.
He's a highly talented, strictly business.
He had a mannerism about him to cut out as much superfluous discussion as anybody I've ever known.
If you went to see Fred Benson and pull up a chair and sit down at his place,
He looked across the desk and had that old steel blue eyes and he just looked a hole through you and said, well, get on with it.
What is it?
What are we going to do here?
And if you're there just to visit with him, it takes a while for that to sort of settle down because he has that mannerism that repels anyone wasting his time.
And if you want to talk to him about something and get something from him, you realize right quick that you don't have it.
documented exactly the way it needs to be and it established that beyond doubt you truly need it and he ought to give it to you, you weren't going anywhere.
But if you could establish that with him, that by golly we got something busted down, we need some money to replace it, he would always come through.
But he always begrudged getting involved in anything that was unnecessary.
Best anecdote, I remember some guy,
who was head of ME department at that time.
His name's not in the department.
I know him, but his name's not in the department.
He told me the story.
He said, I went in to see Benson and sat down.
He says, hey, I'm thinking about those so-and-so and maybe you're sending him over here to do such and such.
He says, what do you think I'll do about that?
And he just said, well, Dr. Blanky Blank, I can handle that problem for you if you want me to.
And he said, well, I think I can do it all right.
And it got off my lip, but that was Benson Blanky.
But he knew the budget.
He knew what people were making.
Right now, there's not a department head on the campus that knows what their own budget looks like.
But he knew the College of Engineering payroll pretty well.
I've seen him.
I've seen guys get up to these computer printout forms and go through all this stuff.
And he said, hell, that's wrong.
He could go through and add it up in his head faster than people can go through with an adding machine.
But he was a highly talented, no-nonsense person who made many contributions
this university, and I've never seen, I don't know how he did it.
He could get in any group and stand up and just say things that the rest of us couldn't get by with, but he could, because he was just that blunt and that straightforward.
Now, what do you think was his perception of what Texas A&M's engineering program should be?
Now, getting in his head is a little bit difficult, but I think he felt great pride for A&M's heritage.
And looking through the industry and seeing all the people in the positions that they're in.
And his idea was, let's keep this thing at least that good.
Let's don't experiment.
Let's don't take our brain out and fiddle with it.
Let's keep it on track.
Let's keep it at least as good.
Let's have continuity.
Let's have people in position who can do a good job.
And let's just do it more and longer and better.
He wasn't experimental, where he said, hey, I've got a keen idea.
Let's run a bar and put on a show and do it Mickey Ring style.
He said, no, we're going to go down the road and do it the way it ought to be done.
Did you have any kind of instruction directly or by inference of any of the rules for a faculty member, things you were not to do?
From him, no.
Or from anybody?
No.
Nobody told you that you should not?
Well, I'll take it back.
You know, the street would say, now, you're going to have students come in.
They're going to want to take off a day early or something like that when it gets to the time of the year and that sort of.
And the best thing to do is just hold the line, just college regulation for success and that sort of thing.
But two hadn't been told that, but a few faculty members adhere to that.
They think they ought to get to run their own show.
You know, like Cokes in the room, I always say we've got signs on up there that says no Cokes in the room.
You know, we've got that sign, that's college regulation, let's don't do it.
In terms of private life, were there any understood rules or guidelines about faculty members away from the campus?
I don't think so, Haskin.
Did anybody ever have students over at their home and serve them alcohol?
Oh, no.
What did you wear?
How did you dress to go to class?
Usually when it was hot when I first started out, I wore a shirt and a tie and slacks.
Always, when the weather permitted, I wore a coat in addition to that.
Did anybody tell you to do that?
but that was pretty well what everybody was doing.
The guys that held positions of respect did.
So it's like impersonating a hobo or a winner.
What you saw was a role model.
It's just, I'd rather be like him than out here in the street with a wine bottle.
When you came, where did you live as a faculty member?
When I first came here, Chris and I... You're married by that time?
Yeah, we lived in one of Gronland's little...
rental places on Welch Street and then that first summer I left went home to work and I came back with a little bitty cubby hole place on Ayrshire and then I think about the next summer we bought a place on Fidelity Street.
Do you remember what the rent was the first place or two?
Something like $75 I think.
And did you all have furniture by then?
I don't think so.
It might have been furnished.
Okay.
And what was your teaching load when you began?
Four sections and we met six.
Contact 24 hours away.
Great.
And what, I ask this out of complete ignorance, what would be the, what did you, what homework did you get from them to grade?
We had problem manuals and we would remove a page and some of them are freehand and some of them you have to take them down and solve problems and geometry problems and dimension parts and do some design work.
Even later on, we worked on some vellum.
We'd take it through the blueprint machine, make blueprints of the drawings and state them all together.
A lot like engineers would do drawings to build for them.
Did you mark these with a red pencil?
And then they took tests.
How many per semester normally?
And at that time, I think we took about four tests during the semester.
And a final exam?
Did not have a final exam.
These were all freshmen?
Freshmen.
Well, not necessarily, but most of them meant to be a beginning course.
All right.
And as the years went on, what would your teaching assignments, how would they fit?
Still remained about at that level.
And the tests went from four tests, which seemed to be a great big fat test that took up
big chunk of time what we did that we made weekly tests and we had something like 15 of them, one a week.
So they were shorter to grade but it made the students keep up rather than trying to put off studying the crown for this picture.